Ltac2 Compile (#17521)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/proof-engine/ltac2.rst

   together with its type. This command is pure in the sense that it does not
   modify the state of the proof, and in particular all side-effects are discarded.

Compilation
-----------

Ltac2 definitions can be compiled to OCaml, the compiled definitions
will then run natively instead of using the interpreter.

.. cmd:: Ltac2 Compile {* @qualid }

>    Compile the given Ltac2 definitions. Compilation does not survive

Author: C gets compiled once. It does not matter what file defines A B C.

   state resets (end of file, end of module, end of section).

   Ltac2 code in an :ref:`antiquotation <term-antiquotations>` will

>    not be compiled. It will also not be seen by dependency analysis,
>    so Ltac2 definitions appearing in an antiquotation which appears in
>    an argument of `Ltac2 Compile` will not be automatically compiled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   not be compiled. Nor will it be detected by dependency analysis,
   so Ltac2 definitions in antiquotations in tactics passed to
   `Ltac2 Compile` will not be automatically compiled.  In this case,
   the compile command should explicitly list such definitions.
```

Will the compiled version give correct results (though perhaps slower) if there is such a definition?  How about if ltac2 calls ltac1?

Author: The compiled version should always give correct results except for the explicitly documented issues (backtraces etc)

   Compiled code currently does not respect :flag:`Ltac Profiling` and

>    :flag:`Ltac2 Backtrace`.

Reviewer: I expect it will not play nicely with the debugger, either, when that becomes available.  But not an issue for today.

   Compilation of string and open constructor patterns in or-patterns
   (e.g. `("foo" | "bar")` or `(Not_found | Assertion_failure)`) is
   exponentially inefficient. For instance
   `(("a" | "b" | "c"), ("a" | "b" | "c" | "d"))` produces `3 * 4` OCaml branches.

.. attr:: recursive{? = {| yes | no } }

   By default :cmd:`Ltac2 Compile` also compiles the dependencies of
   its arguments. This attribute may be used to make this behaviour
   explicit or to disable it.

.. warn:: Skipped compilation of mutable definitions {+ qualid }

   Mutable definitions cannot be compiled. If :cmd:`Ltac2 Compile` in
   recursive mode is used on a definition which depends on a mutable
   definition, this warning will be emitted.

.. exn:: Not allowed to compile mutable @qualid

   This error is emitted when :cmd:`Ltac2 Compile` is given a mutable

>    definition as an argument.

Reviewer: Would you indent all this 3 more spaces?  It should all appear under the :cmd:

   together with its type. This command is pure in the sense that it does not
   modify the state of the proof, and in particular all side-effects are discarded.

Compilation
-----------

Ltac2 definitions can be compiled to OCaml.  The compiled definitions
will then run natively instead of using the interpreter.

.. cmd:: Ltac2 Compile {* @qualid }

>    Compiles the named Ltac2 definitions and any other Ltac2 definitions they depend on

Reviewer: FWIW: "Ltac2 definitions" meaning definitions of Ltac2 tactics?  This seems like a poor choice of terminology.  It brings to mind the `Definition` command, which is something completely different, while not using the well-established term "tactic".  (Of course, you're just following the terminology used in the Ltac2 chapter.)

   for use in the current Coq process.  The compiled code is used to execute the definitions

>    until the state reset (end of file, end of module, end of section).

Reviewer: Dropping the compiled code at the end of a file, module or section seems very limiting.  Wouldn't it make it really hard for a user if they want to compile all their Ltac2 code?  Is this primarily about providing a way to clear out the cache of compiled code or something deeper?  It seems like it would be easy to end up recompiling the same code over and over.  If a compiled tactic calls a library, it could end compiling quite a lot of code (e.g. imagine they call an Ltac2 version of fiat-crypto)

Author: "Future work: cache compilation results across files" 1st post of the PR

   Ltac2 code in an :ref:`antiquotation <term-antiquotations>` will

>    not be compiled. Nor will it be detected by dependency analysis,

Reviewer: I'm unclear on the user impact of this limitation on antiquotations.  Is it something that can be handled later or a permanent limitation?  IIUC this doesn't refer to tactic definitions because that's a command, which cannot appear in an antiquotation.  If an antiquotation calls a tactic that's been compiled, it will use the compiled version, right?

   so Ltac2 definitions in antiquotations in tactics passed to
   `Ltac2 Compile` will not be automatically compiled.  In this case,
   the compile command should explicitly list such definitions.

   Compiled code currently does not respect :flag:`Ltac Profiling` and
   :flag:`Ltac2 Backtrace`.

   Compilation of string and open constructor patterns in or-patterns
   (e.g. `("foo" | "bar")` or `(Not_found | Assertion_failure)`) is
   exponentially inefficient. For instance
   `(("a" | "b" | "c"), ("a" | "b" | "c" | "d"))` produces `3 * 4` OCaml branches.

   .. attr:: recursive{? = {| yes | no } }

      By default :cmd:`Ltac2 Compile` also compiles the dependencies of

>       its arguments. This attribute may be used to make this behaviour

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      its arguments. This attribute may be used to make this behavior
```

"behaviour" is Brit-speak.
